1. Open your Gemfile, add the following

gem 'acts-as-taggable-on', '~> 2.3.1'


2. Open your terminal, navigate to your application, and run:

bundle install


followed by

rails generate acts_as_taggable_on:migration


and finally

rake db:migrate


3. Detect a model you want to add tags to (in my case, post.rb), and add a line just like this:

acts_as_taggable_on :tags


Then in posts_helper.rb add

 include ActsAsTaggableOn::TagsHelper


4. We then need to add a way to add tags in our posts, so let's edit the posts/_form.html.erb file, and at the end of our form (and before the submit button) let's add:

<%= f.label :tags %>
<%= f.text_field :tag_list %>


5. Now we have to edit our view. In your posts/show.html.erb file, where you want to show the tags, add:

<% @post.tags.any? %>
        <% @post.tags.each do |tag| %>
        <%= link_to tag.name, tagged_url(:tag => tag.name) %>
<% end %>


meaning that unless there are no tags, the tags should be shown. Please note that "tagged"  is the name of an action within our posts controller, and we are going to add it in our next step. 

6. Modify your posts controller
In the posts controller you need to add a new action which we can call tagged. This is the action we are going to show when a user clicks on a tag in our posts, so if you prefer you can call it whatever you like, but if you do, remember to change it in the steps above too.

def tagged
      if params[:tag].present? 
      @posts = Post.tagged_with(params[:tag])
    else 
      @posts = Post.postall
    end  
end


This little code above would grab the tag value we are passing to the controller (if present), and would put it into the instance variable @posts.
More in detail, this line:
@posts = Post.tagged_with(params[:tag])
means:
@posts will contain posts tagged with the tag parameter, quite self explainatory I believe.

7. Create a view for our Tagged action, which can be exactly the same as your index view (mine is, except for the title), and add a route to reach it in your routes.rb file, like so:

match 'tagged' => 'posts#tagged', :as => 'tagged'


Please note that tagged_with is a functionality provided by the gem acts_as_taggable_on.

